Dragon Warrior Town Editor Version 3.1

May the light shine upon thou who doth not ask for ROM IMAGES.

Files Included:

Townedit.txt      This File
Townedit.bat      Run this... delete the old exe file.
Townedit.bas      QB45/QBASIC Source
Dw1tiles.dw       Map tile graphics
Offset.dw         Needed for overworld editing
Mapinfo.txt       Map format information
Qbasic.EXE        Hey everybody!  It's FreeWare!

What's new:

V3.1	Music Editor added.
	Probably the last version...

V3.0	Now edits stairs and treasure chests!
	Warp feature improved!
	More code spiffed up.


V2.2	Overworld editing now easier! New SuperEditor!
	Fixed the Dragon Test rom identifier, it used to
	detect invalid roms if the header contained "DiskDude!"
	Now features Full DragonQuest support, even overworld!

V2.001á	Beta Version!
	Overworld editing!
	Roof Editing now easier!
	Draw Mode! (press TAB to toggle)
	Removed Import/Export features, who used them anyway?
	Shows princess in dungeons correctly

V1.9:	Now can edit roofs!
	Preserves last bit of tiles in
	shrines and dungeons.
	Made page numbering more convient.

V1.8b:	Now features ALL MAPS execpt the overworld.
	Now supports maps that aren't square.
	Changed MAP file format a bit. (maps should
	still work with older versions)

V1.5b:  Now automaticly shows specials everywhere!
	Shows destinations of stairs.
	Added a warp feature to "go down stairs."
	Added support for DragonQuest
	Now can create new files from existing ones! (uses COPY)

V1.2:   Now can Import/Export MAP files!
	Keep Feature removed, who used it anyway?
	Map Finder removed.

V0.99b: Correct tiles in dungeon maps
	More features in Map Finder

V0.99a: Fixed Bugs in save routine
	Added all Dragonlord castle maps
	Added Map Finder

V0.99: (inital release)
	Added dungeon maps
	Changed user interface

V0.5: (unreleased)
        Inital Development

V0.0:  ASCII GRAPHICS TOWN VIEWER


<ingnore>
Command line parameters:
 TOWNEDIT [filename]

If you do not specify a filename, the program will ask for one.
The default filename is "DragonW1.NES"
</ignore>

The files, "DW1TILES.DW" and "OFFSETS.DW", need to be in the same directory
as the program and the rom.

Remember to make backup copies of your original file, you may need them.


THE OVERWORLD SUPER EDITOR:

To access the super editor, press E from the overworld editor.
You can not save if the masses counter is too high on any row.  Reduce the masses first.  
How?  Every time the terrain changes a byte is added.


FAQ:
Q: What does the warp thing do?  It just seems to beep.
A: It is used to go down stairs, making editing of DragonLord's dungeon
   easier to edit.

Q: Will this be updated?
A: Whenever I change the code sufficiently, I'll release a new version.

Q: When will you add DW2/3/4 support?
A: As soon as I manage to successfully glitch the maps of DWx, and find
   out how the levels are stored.  Overworld support will likely come first.
   (note: DW2 uses the oddest form of overworld compression, probably 2003 will be the
    date I crack that game!)

Q: Why doesn't the file download?
A: Because GeoS***ties is a terrible web hoster.  Also make sure you
   are using the latest PkUnzip/WinZip/WinRAR/whatever.
   (note, if you can read this, then you probably downloaded this fine...)

Q: Why is this program slow?
A: It's written in QBASIC. QBASIC is slow.



Notes:

Treasure chests only work if a treasure chest 'Special' is placed under it.
Black squares in dungeons are walls, not pitfalls.
Princess Gwaelin can be placed in any dungeon.  Multiple copies of her may also exist.
Do NOT set the file property of the rom to read only or else the editor will quit when saving files.
The Axe Ghost and Bamboo Pole are glitched items that show up as Herb but do nothing.
You still can't move people.

Special thanks to that dude at Rage Games that found the throne room map data, and SnowBro software, for making other cool level editors.



Feel free to send me any IPS patches.  They will be posted with your consent, and you will be given credit.


If this program doesn't work for you, try running the source with Qbasic 1.1+ (included)

The official Homepage is currently at:
http://sgc.emu2k.com/dwedit
or,
http://www.google.com/search?q=Dragon+Warrior+Town+Editor&num=10&sa=I'm+feeling+lucky

Any questions, comments, maps, info, or bug reports should be sent to:
dwedit@hotmail.com
(SEND SPAM AND DIE)

You will be given credit if I use any information you provide.

This was programed in QuickBasic 4.5/QBASIC
Source code is included.  You may use this as a base, but don't even try to pass this qbasic crap off as your own .-)